docs/modeling.md, before:

# NFL Prediction Model -- Mathematical Reference

This document is the comprehensive mathematical reference for the NFL prediction model. It covers every formula, distribution, and governance rule used in the pipeline.

---

## Report Rendering Authority

HTML/report rendering is intentionally centralized in `NFLmarket.R` (`moneyline_report()` and `export_moneyline_comparison_html()`). `NFLsimulation.R` is limited to simulation/backtest generation and preparing report inputs; it does not own a separate HTML export path.

---

## 1. Shrinkage

Market shrinkage blends the raw model probability toward the market-implied probability to account for NFL market efficiency.

**Formula:**

```
shrunk_prob = (1 - shrinkage) * model_prob + shrinkage * market_prob
```

**Shrinkage values by context:**

| Context | Shrinkage | Config Key |
|---------|-----------|------------|
| Regular season | 0.70 | `SHRINKAGE` |
| Wild Card / Divisional / Conference | 0.70 | (same) |
| Super Bowl | 0.75 | `SUPER_BOWL_SHRINKAGE` |

**Rationale:** NFL markets are extremely efficient. Raw model disagreements with the market are more likely to reflect overfit or noise than genuine edge. A 70% weight toward the market keeps the model's contribution meaningful while respecting the information already priced in.

---

## 2. Devig Method

The model uses **proportional normalization** (also called the "basic" or "multiplicative" method) to remove the bookmaker's vig from American moneyline odds.

**Step 1 -- Convert American odds to implied probability:**

```
For negative ML:  implied_prob = -ML / (-ML + 100)
For positive ML:  implied_prob = 100 / (ML + 100)
```

**Step 2 -- Normalize to remove vig:**

```
true_prob = implied_prob / sum(all_implied_probs)
```

For a two-way market with implied probabilities `p_home` and `p_away`:

```
true_home = p_home / (p_home + p_away)
true_away = p_away / (p_home + p_away)
```

**Why proportional over Shin or logit methods:** Simpler, well-understood, and the differences between devig methods are less than 1 percentage point in practice for NFL moneylines. The added complexity of Shin or logit devig does not produce meaningful accuracy gains in this context.

**Source:** `R/utils.R:devig_american_odds()`

---

## 3. EV Calculation

Expected Value (EV) measures the average profit per unit staked at the offered odds, given the model's estimated probability.

**Formula:**

```
EV = prob * (decimal_odds - 1) - (1 - prob)
```

**Converting American odds to decimal:**

```
For negative ML:  decimal_odds = 1 + 100 / |ML|
For positive ML:  decimal_odds = 1 + ML / 100
```

**Example:** Model probability = 0.55, offered odds = -110 (decimal 1.909):

```
EV = 0.55 * (1.909 - 1) - (1 - 0.55)
   = 0.55 * 0.909 - 0.45
   = 0.500 - 0.450
   = +0.050  (i.e., +5.0% EV)
```

**Important:** The model always uses the **shrunk probability** (not the raw simulation probability) for all betting EV calculations.

**Source:** `R/utils.R:expected_value_units()`

---

## 4. Kelly Criterion

The Kelly criterion determines optimal bet sizing to maximize long-term bankroll growth.

**Full Kelly formula:**

```
kelly = (p * b - q) / b
```

Where:
- `p` = estimated probability of winning (shrunk probability)
- `q` = 1 - p (probability of losing)
- `b` = decimal_odds - 1 (net payout per unit)

**Fractional Kelly:**

The model applies **1/8 Kelly** to reduce volatility:

```
stake = kelly * KELLY_FRACTION
```

Where `KELLY_FRACTION = 0.125`.

**Edge skepticism penalty:**

Large perceived edges are penalized because they are more likely to reflect model error than genuine mispricing:

| Perceived Edge | Penalty Multiplier |
|---------------|--------------------|
| Edge <= 10% | 1.0 (no penalty) |
| 10% < Edge <= 20% | 0.5 |
| 20% < Edge <= 30% | 0.25 |
| Edge > 30% | 0.1 |

The final stake is:

```
final_stake = kelly * KELLY_FRACTION * edge_penalty
```

**Stake bounds:**

| Parameter | Value | Meaning |
|-----------|-------|---------|
| `MAX_STAKE` | 0.02 | Maximum 2% of bankroll on any single bet |
| `MIN_STAKE_THRESHOLD` | 0.01 | Minimum 1% of bankroll; below this the bet is a PASS |

**Source:** `R/utils.R:conservative_kelly_stake()`

---

## 5. Calibration

Calibration maps raw simulation probabilities to better-calibrated probabilities using historical data.

**Primary method:** Spline calibration via a GAM (Generalized Additive Model) with a smoothing penalty.

**Fallback method:** Isotonic regression via `isoreg()`, used when the spline model is unavailable or fails to fit.

**Performance:** Spline calibration achieves a **-6.9% improvement** in Brier score compared to uncalibrated probabilities.

**Application rules:**
- Calibration is applied **exactly once** to raw simulation probabilities.
- Output probabilities are bounded to **[0.01, 0.99]** to prevent degenerate log-loss values.
- When calibration is unavailable, the model compensates by adjusting shrinkage upward.

**Source:** `NFLsimulation.R:5596-5670`

---

## 6. Player Props Model

### 6.1 Gaussian Copula

Player prop simulations are correlated with game-level simulation outcomes using a Gaussian copula. This ensures that, for example, a QB's passing yards are higher in simulations where the game total is high.

**Correlation targets** (empirically validated against recent nflreadr data; see `scripts/correlation_audit.R`):

| Relationship | Correlation (r) | 95% CI |
|-------------|-----------------|--------|
| QB passing <-> game total | 0.40 | [0.35, 0.45] |
| RB rushing <-> game total | 0.09 | [0.05, 0.12] |
| WR/TE receiving <-> team passing | 0.30 | [0.26, 0.34] |
| TD probability <-> game total | 0.17 | [0.14, 0.20] |
| Same-team cannibalization | -0.15 | [-0.20, -0.10] |

**Mechanism:** For each simulation trial, a reference z-score from the game simulation is used to generate a correlated z-score for the player prop via:

```
z_player = rho * z_game + sqrt(1 - rho^2) * z_independent
```

Where `z_independent ~ N(0, 1)` is an independent standard normal draw.

**Source:** `R/correlated_props.R:generate_correlated_variates()`

**Audit:** Run `Rscript scripts/correlation_audit.R` to recompute empirical correlations from nflreadr data and compare against config values.

### 6.2 Yard Props (Truncated Normal)

Yard props (passing, rushing, receiving) are modeled with a **truncated normal distribution**, truncated at zero to prevent negative yardage.

**Distribution:**

```
yards ~ Normal(baseline, sd), truncated at 0
```

Where:
- `baseline` = player's projected yards for the game (adjusted for opponent defense and game context)
- `sd = baseline * CV`

**Coefficient of Variation (CV) values:**

| Position / Stat | CV |
|----------------|----|
| QB passing yards | 0.29 |
| RB rushing yards | 0.40 |
| WR/TE receiving yards | 0.35 |

**Over/Under probability:**

```
P(Over line) = mean(simulated_yards > market_line)
```

Computed as the proportion of simulation trials exceeding the market line.

**Push-aware accounting (two-way props):**

If books post asymmetric lines (or a whole-number line), the model tracks push probability:

```
p_push_over = mean(simulated == line_over)
p_push_under = mean(simulated == line_under)
```

EV uses push-aware formulas so pushes are not treated as losses.

### 6.2.1 Receptions (Count Model)

Receptions are modeled as a count process with Poisson by default and optional Negative Binomial:

```
receptions ~ Poisson(lambda = baseline)
```

If `PROP_DISTRIBUTION_COUNT = "negbin"`, the model uses:

```
receptions ~ NegBin(size, mu = baseline)
size = baseline / (RECEPTIONS_OVERDISPERSION - 1)
```

### 6.3 Anytime TD Props (Negative Binomial)

Anytime touchdown props model the count of scoring touchdowns a player records in a game.

**Distribution:**

```
scoring_tds ~ NegBin(size, mu = baseline)
```

Where:
- `baseline` = player's average scoring TDs per game
- `scoring_tds` = rushing TDs + receiving TDs (passing TDs are **excluded**)
- `size = baseline / (TD_OVERDISPERSION - 1)` (clamped to >= 0.1 in code)

**Overdispersion:** `TD_OVERDISPERSION = 1.5`

**Anytime TD probability:**

```
p0 = (size / (size + mu))^size
P(anytime TD) = 1 - p0
```

**Display note:** The props table shows `P(anytime TD)`, **not** the expected TD count.

### 6.4 EV for Props

Player prop EV uses the same formula as game-level EV:

```
EV = P(side) * (decimal_odds - 1) - (1 - P(side) - P(push))
```

Where `P(side)` is the model probability for the relevant side (over or under for yards; anytime or no-TD for touchdowns).

**Minimum edge for recommendation:** 2%. Below this threshold, no BET/OVER/UNDER recommendation is made.

**Review threshold:** If best positive `EV` > 10%, the prop is flagged as `REVIEW` to check for data issues.

---

## 7. Governance Rules

### Game Table

| Condition | Action | Reason |
|-----------|--------|--------|
| EV > 10% | Auto-PASS ("Edge too large") | Likely reflects stale or incorrect odds |
| Kelly stake < 1% bankroll | Auto-PASS ("Stake below minimum") | Not worth the transaction cost |

**Edge bins for display:**

| Edge Range | Label |
|-----------|-------|
| 0-5% | OK |
| 5-10% | High |
| >=10% | Review |

### Player Props

**Props EV tiers (best positive EV):**

| EV Range | Label |
|-----------|-------|
| <= 5% | OK |
| <= 10% | High |
| > 10% | Review |

**Recommendation thresholds:**
- Minimum 2% edge required for any BET/OVER/UNDER recommendation.
- Props below the 2% threshold receive no directional recommendation.

**Prop odds sources:**
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "auto"` prefers ScoresAndOdds scraping when allowed; otherwise uses The Odds API (if `ODDS_API_KEY` is set), then CSV.
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "odds_api"` uses The Odds API (requires `ODDS_API_KEY`).
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "scoresandodds"` uses the ScoresAndOdds market-comparison API (requires `PROP_ODDS_ALLOW_REMOTE_HTML = TRUE`).
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "csv"` loads a local CSV from `PROP_ODDS_CSV_PATH`.
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "model"` derives line + odds from the simulation distribution with `PROP_MARKET_VIG` **only when** `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_ODDS = TRUE`.
- `PROP_ODDS_BOOK_PRIORITY` sets the preferred sportsbooks for market selection (default DraftKings -> FanDuel).
- `PROP_ODDS_SCRAPE_DELAY_SEC` throttles remote scrape calls to respect rate limits (default 0.4s).
- `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_LINES` controls whether missing lines fall back to simulation quantiles (default TRUE).
- `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_ODDS` controls whether missing odds are synthesized from model probabilities (default FALSE).

---

## 8. Known Limitations

1. **Shrinkage hides the raw model view.** The displayed probability is the shrunk (blended) probability, not the direct simulation output. Users cannot see the model's "pure" opinion without consulting the raw simulation logs.

2. **Prop odds fallback is synthetic only when enabled.** If market odds are unavailable and `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_ODDS = FALSE` (default), the report shows missing odds and suppresses EV/recommendations. Setting `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_ODDS = TRUE` allows the pipeline to derive odds from the simulation distribution with `PROP_MARKET_VIG` (model-derived, not sportsbook-specific).

3. **TD model uses average scoring TDs as the Negative Binomial mean.** For low-volume players (tight ends, QB rushers), this may underestimate variance because the sample size for their TD rates is small and unstable.

4. **Calibration is trained on 2022-2024 data.** The calibration function may not generalize well to seasons with significant rule changes, scoring environment shifts, or other structural breaks in NFL gameplay.

5. **Margin coherence is enforced post-hoc.** The function `harmonize_home_margin` reconciles cases where the raw simulation margin and the shrunk win probability disagree. In rare edge cases, these two quantities legitimately diverge, and the post-hoc adjustment may mask that signal.

6. **Scraping rate limits vary by provider.** The model throttles ScoresAndOdds requests via `PROP_ODDS_SCRAPE_DELAY_SEC`, but explicit rate limits for public pages are not always published. Validate terms and adjust the delay as needed. Some providers (e.g., ScoresAndOdds, OddsTrader) prohibit automated scraping without permission, so only enable `PROP_ODDS_ALLOW_REMOTE_HTML` when licensed.

7. **Aggregator coverage is source-specific.** The current implementation supports The Odds API and ScoresAndOdds. OddsTrader and Covers are not yet wired as automated sources.


## 10. Ambiguity Handling and Column Contracts

To prevent report ambiguity, the game table now distinguishes between raw implied and vig-free market probabilities:

- `ML Implied Home % (Raw)` = implied probability directly from market home moneyline.
- `Market Home Win % (Fair, Devig=proportional)` = vig-free probability from proportional devig.

Recommendation governance is deterministic and ordered:

1. Missing market odds -> `PASS` with reason `Market odds missing/placeholder`
2. Non-positive EV -> `PASS` with reason `Negative EV`
3. EV > max edge -> `PASS` with reason `Edge too large`
4. Positive EV but stake below threshold -> `PASS` with reason `Stake below minimum`
5. Otherwise -> bet recommendation

For props, entries above governance bounds are labeled `REVIEW` (review gate), not a runtime/model crash indicator by itself.

Commit message:

Add props charts, odds sourcing, and scrapers
Add in-report charting and improve prop odds sourcing and fallbacks.

- NFLmarket.R: introduce plot_to_base64_img, build_games_charts and build_props_charts to render charts as base64 PNGs and embed them into the games/props report; add a simple HTML fallback renderer for props tables; inject charts into report sections; adjust CSS (sticky offsets, padding, chart card styles) for responsive layout.
- prop_odds_api.R: tag CSV loads with source, add source param when constructing prop rows from API, and add best-effort Oddstrader/Covers HTML scraping helpers (extract_json_blob, parse_oddstrader_html, load_prop_odds_oddstrader, load_prop_odds_covers). Extend resolve_prop_odds_cache to support PROP_ODDS_SOURCE_ORDER and iterate sources (ScoresAndOdds → OddsTrader → Covers → Odds API → CSV → model) and allow single-source override.
- R/correlated_props.R: honor PROP_REQUIRE_MARKET_ODDS by filtering to market-sourced prop rows when requested; add MAX_EDGE default retrieval.
- config/docs: document prop odds sourcing behavior and market filter in DOCUMENTATION.md and modeling docs.
- artifacts: update baseline_games.csv and baseline_props.csv fixtures to reflect data changes.

These changes improve UX by showing charts inline, provide more robust odds-source fallbacks, and allow configuration to require/limit market-sourced odds.

docs/modeling.md, after:

# NFL Prediction Model -- Mathematical Reference

This document is the comprehensive mathematical reference for the NFL prediction model. It covers every formula, distribution, and governance rule used in the pipeline.

---

## Report Rendering Authority

HTML/report rendering is intentionally centralized in `NFLmarket.R` (`moneyline_report()` and `export_moneyline_comparison_html()`). `NFLsimulation.R` is limited to simulation/backtest generation and preparing report inputs; it does not own a separate HTML export path.

---

## 1. Shrinkage

Market shrinkage blends the raw model probability toward the market-implied probability to account for NFL market efficiency.

**Formula:**

```
shrunk_prob = (1 - shrinkage) * model_prob + shrinkage * market_prob
```

**Shrinkage values by context:**

| Context | Shrinkage | Config Key |
|---------|-----------|------------|
| Regular season | 0.70 | `SHRINKAGE` |
| Wild Card / Divisional / Conference | 0.70 | (same) |
| Super Bowl | 0.75 | `SUPER_BOWL_SHRINKAGE` |

**Rationale:** NFL markets are extremely efficient. Raw model disagreements with the market are more likely to reflect overfit or noise than genuine edge. A 70% weight toward the market keeps the model's contribution meaningful while respecting the information already priced in.

---

## 2. Devig Method

The model uses **proportional normalization** (also called the "basic" or "multiplicative" method) to remove the bookmaker's vig from American moneyline odds.

**Step 1 -- Convert American odds to implied probability:**

```
For negative ML:  implied_prob = -ML / (-ML + 100)
For positive ML:  implied_prob = 100 / (ML + 100)
```

**Step 2 -- Normalize to remove vig:**

```
true_prob = implied_prob / sum(all_implied_probs)
```

For a two-way market with implied probabilities `p_home` and `p_away`:

```
true_home = p_home / (p_home + p_away)
true_away = p_away / (p_home + p_away)
```

**Why proportional over Shin or logit methods:** Simpler, well-understood, and the differences between devig methods are less than 1 percentage point in practice for NFL moneylines. The added complexity of Shin or logit devig does not produce meaningful accuracy gains in this context.

**Source:** `R/utils.R:devig_american_odds()`

---

## 3. EV Calculation

Expected Value (EV) measures the average profit per unit staked at the offered odds, given the model's estimated probability.

**Formula:**

```
EV = prob * (decimal_odds - 1) - (1 - prob)
```

**Converting American odds to decimal:**

```
For negative ML:  decimal_odds = 1 + 100 / |ML|
For positive ML:  decimal_odds = 1 + ML / 100
```

**Example:** Model probability = 0.55, offered odds = -110 (decimal 1.909):

```
EV = 0.55 * (1.909 - 1) - (1 - 0.55)
   = 0.55 * 0.909 - 0.45
   = 0.500 - 0.450
   = +0.050  (i.e., +5.0% EV)
```

**Important:** The model always uses the **shrunk probability** (not the raw simulation probability) for all betting EV calculations.

**Source:** `R/utils.R:expected_value_units()`

---

## 4. Kelly Criterion

The Kelly criterion determines optimal bet sizing to maximize long-term bankroll growth.

**Full Kelly formula:**

```
kelly = (p * b - q) / b
```

Where:
- `p` = estimated probability of winning (shrunk probability)
- `q` = 1 - p (probability of losing)
- `b` = decimal_odds - 1 (net payout per unit)

**Fractional Kelly:**

The model applies **1/8 Kelly** to reduce volatility:

```
stake = kelly * KELLY_FRACTION
```

Where `KELLY_FRACTION = 0.125`.

**Edge skepticism penalty:**

Large perceived edges are penalized because they are more likely to reflect model error than genuine mispricing:

| Perceived Edge | Penalty Multiplier |
|---------------|--------------------|
| Edge <= 10% | 1.0 (no penalty) |
| 10% < Edge <= 20% | 0.5 |
| 20% < Edge <= 30% | 0.25 |
| Edge > 30% | 0.1 |

The final stake is:

```
final_stake = kelly * KELLY_FRACTION * edge_penalty
```

**Stake bounds:**

| Parameter | Value | Meaning |
|-----------|-------|---------|
| `MAX_STAKE` | 0.02 | Maximum 2% of bankroll on any single bet |
| `MIN_STAKE_THRESHOLD` | 0.01 | Minimum 1% of bankroll; below this the bet is a PASS |

**Source:** `R/utils.R:conservative_kelly_stake()`

---

## 5. Calibration

Calibration maps raw simulation probabilities to better-calibrated probabilities using historical data.

**Primary method:** Spline calibration via a GAM (Generalized Additive Model) with a smoothing penalty.

**Fallback method:** Isotonic regression via `isoreg()`, used when the spline model is unavailable or fails to fit.

**Performance:** Spline calibration achieves a **-6.9% improvement** in Brier score compared to uncalibrated probabilities.

**Application rules:**
- Calibration is applied **exactly once** to raw simulation probabilities.
- Output probabilities are bounded to **[0.01, 0.99]** to prevent degenerate log-loss values.
- When calibration is unavailable, the model compensates by adjusting shrinkage upward.

**Source:** `NFLsimulation.R:5596-5670`

---

## 6. Player Props Model

### 6.1 Gaussian Copula

Player prop simulations are correlated with game-level simulation outcomes using a Gaussian copula. This ensures that, for example, a QB's passing yards are higher in simulations where the game total is high.

**Correlation targets** (empirically validated against recent nflreadr data; see `scripts/correlation_audit.R`):

| Relationship | Correlation (r) | 95% CI |
|-------------|-----------------|--------|
| QB passing <-> game total | 0.40 | [0.35, 0.45] |
| RB rushing <-> game total | 0.09 | [0.05, 0.12] |
| WR/TE receiving <-> team passing | 0.30 | [0.26, 0.34] |
| TD probability <-> game total | 0.17 | [0.14, 0.20] |
| Same-team cannibalization | -0.15 | [-0.20, -0.10] |

**Mechanism:** For each simulation trial, a reference z-score from the game simulation is used to generate a correlated z-score for the player prop via:

```
z_player = rho * z_game + sqrt(1 - rho^2) * z_independent
```

Where `z_independent ~ N(0, 1)` is an independent standard normal draw.

**Source:** `R/correlated_props.R:generate_correlated_variates()`

**Audit:** Run `Rscript scripts/correlation_audit.R` to recompute empirical correlations from nflreadr data and compare against config values.

### 6.2 Yard Props (Truncated Normal)

Yard props (passing, rushing, receiving) are modeled with a **truncated normal distribution**, truncated at zero to prevent negative yardage.

**Distribution:**

```
yards ~ Normal(baseline, sd), truncated at 0
```

Where:
- `baseline` = player's projected yards for the game (adjusted for opponent defense and game context)
- `sd = baseline * CV`

**Coefficient of Variation (CV) values:**

| Position / Stat | CV |
|----------------|----|
| QB passing yards | 0.29 |
| RB rushing yards | 0.40 |
| WR/TE receiving yards | 0.35 |

**Over/Under probability:**

```
P(Over line) = mean(simulated_yards > market_line)
```

Computed as the proportion of simulation trials exceeding the market line.

**Push-aware accounting (two-way props):**

If books post asymmetric lines (or a whole-number line), the model tracks push probability:

```
p_push_over = mean(simulated == line_over)
p_push_under = mean(simulated == line_under)
```

EV uses push-aware formulas so pushes are not treated as losses.

### 6.2.1 Receptions (Count Model)

Receptions are modeled as a count process with Poisson by default and optional Negative Binomial:

```
receptions ~ Poisson(lambda = baseline)
```

If `PROP_DISTRIBUTION_COUNT = "negbin"`, the model uses:

```
receptions ~ NegBin(size, mu = baseline)
size = baseline / (RECEPTIONS_OVERDISPERSION - 1)
```

### 6.3 Anytime TD Props (Negative Binomial)

Anytime touchdown props model the count of scoring touchdowns a player records in a game.

**Distribution:**

```
scoring_tds ~ NegBin(size, mu = baseline)
```

Where:
- `baseline` = player's average scoring TDs per game
- `scoring_tds` = rushing TDs + receiving TDs (passing TDs are **excluded**)
- `size = baseline / (TD_OVERDISPERSION - 1)` (clamped to >= 0.1 in code)

**Overdispersion:** `TD_OVERDISPERSION = 1.5`

**Anytime TD probability:**

```
p0 = (size / (size + mu))^size
P(anytime TD) = 1 - p0
```

**Display note:** The props table shows `P(anytime TD)`, **not** the expected TD count.

### 6.4 EV for Props

Player prop EV uses the same formula as game-level EV:

```
EV = P(side) * (decimal_odds - 1) - (1 - P(side) - P(push))
```

Where `P(side)` is the model probability for the relevant side (over or under for yards; anytime or no-TD for touchdowns).

**Minimum edge for recommendation:** 2%. Below this threshold, no BET/OVER/UNDER recommendation is made.

**Review threshold:** If best positive `EV` > 10%, the prop is flagged as `REVIEW` to check for data issues.

---

## 7. Governance Rules

### Game Table

| Condition | Action | Reason |
|-----------|--------|--------|
| EV > 10% | Auto-PASS ("Edge too large") | Likely reflects stale or incorrect odds |
| Kelly stake < 1% bankroll | Auto-PASS ("Stake below minimum") | Not worth the transaction cost |

**Edge bins for display:**

| Edge Range | Label |
|-----------|-------|
| 0-5% | OK |
| 5-10% | High |
| >=10% | Review |

### Player Props

**Props EV tiers (best positive EV):**

| EV Range | Label |
|-----------|-------|
| <= 5% | OK |
| <= 10% | High |
| > 10% | Review |

**Recommendation thresholds:**
- Minimum 2% edge required for any BET/OVER/UNDER recommendation.
- Props below the 2% threshold receive no directional recommendation.

**Prop odds sources:**
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "auto"` iterates sources in `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE_ORDER` (default: ScoresAndOdds → OddsTrader → Covers → The Odds API → CSV → model).
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "odds_api"` uses The Odds API (requires `ODDS_API_KEY`).
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "scoresandodds"` uses the ScoresAndOdds market-comparison API (requires `PROP_ODDS_ALLOW_REMOTE_HTML = TRUE`).
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "oddstrader"` attempts OddsTrader HTML scraping; falls back to CSV if the site is client-rendered.
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "covers"` attempts Covers HTML scraping; may require CSV if blocked.
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "csv"` loads a local CSV from `PROP_ODDS_CSV_PATH`.
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "model"` derives line + odds from the simulation distribution with `PROP_MARKET_VIG` **only when** `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_ODDS = TRUE`.
- `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE_ORDER` sets the auto order when `PROP_ODDS_SOURCE = "auto"`.
- `PROP_ODDS_BOOK_PRIORITY` sets the preferred sportsbooks for market selection (default DraftKings -> FanDuel).
- `PROP_ODDS_SCRAPE_DELAY_SEC` throttles remote scrape calls to respect rate limits (default 0.4s).
- `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_LINES` controls whether missing lines fall back to simulation quantiles (default TRUE).
- `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_ODDS` controls whether missing odds are synthesized from model probabilities (default FALSE).
- `PROP_REQUIRE_MARKET_ODDS` filters props output to rows with market odds when TRUE (falls back if none are available).

---

## 8. Known Limitations

1. **Shrinkage hides the raw model view.** The displayed probability is the shrunk (blended) probability, not the direct simulation output. Users cannot see the model's "pure" opinion without consulting the raw simulation logs.

2. **Prop odds fallback is synthetic only when enabled.** If market odds are unavailable and `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_ODDS = FALSE` (default), the report shows missing odds and suppresses EV/recommendations. Setting `PROP_ALLOW_MODEL_ODDS = TRUE` allows the pipeline to derive odds from the simulation distribution with `PROP_MARKET_VIG` (model-derived, not sportsbook-specific).

3. **TD model uses average scoring TDs as the Negative Binomial mean.** For low-volume players (tight ends, QB rushers), this may underestimate variance because the sample size for their TD rates is small and unstable.

4. **Calibration is trained on 2022-2024 data.** The calibration function may not generalize well to seasons with significant rule changes, scoring environment shifts, or other structural breaks in NFL gameplay.

5. **Margin coherence is enforced post-hoc.** The function `harmonize_home_margin` reconciles cases where the raw simulation margin and the shrunk win probability disagree. In rare edge cases, these two quantities legitimately diverge, and the post-hoc adjustment may mask that signal.

6. **Scraping rate limits vary by provider.** The model throttles ScoresAndOdds requests via `PROP_ODDS_SCRAPE_DELAY_SEC`, but explicit rate limits for public pages are not always published. Validate terms and adjust the delay as needed. Some providers (e.g., ScoresAndOdds, OddsTrader) prohibit automated scraping without permission, so only enable `PROP_ODDS_ALLOW_REMOTE_HTML` when licensed.

7. **Aggregator coverage is source-specific.** The current implementation supports The Odds API and ScoresAndOdds. OddsTrader and Covers are not yet wired as automated sources.


## 10. Ambiguity Handling and Column Contracts

To prevent report ambiguity, the game table now distinguishes between raw implied and vig-free market probabilities:

- `ML Implied Home % (Raw)` = implied probability directly from market home moneyline.
- `Market Home Win % (Fair, Devig=proportional)` = vig-free probability from proportional devig.

Recommendation governance is deterministic and ordered:

1. Missing market odds -> `PASS` with reason `Market odds missing/placeholder`
2. Non-positive EV -> `PASS` with reason `Negative EV`
3. EV > max edge -> `PASS` with reason `Edge too large`
4. Positive EV but stake below threshold -> `PASS` with reason `Stake below minimum`
5. Otherwise -> bet recommendation

For props, entries above governance bounds are labeled `REVIEW` (review gate), not a runtime/model crash indicator by itself.
